And will come back in this video we're going to be looking at saving to Pasic race using Python.
We're going to be storing data related to our users.
So the first thing to do is to create a table for them.
Now our application should be able to create the table before it runs because that's something that
it needs.
What we're going to be looking at that later on.
For now let's create the table manually first.
As you know just launch your learning database and then just press the sequel editor.
And here we can create table users and then we can put in the columns that make that table up.
And I'm not going to slowly with this because we've already been looking at a sequel over the last few
sections so we know how this works.
I wonder if you columns here which should match the properties of the news.
So the first property is ID and the ID is auto incremental and towards the end of our advanced passphrase
section we saw how to make an auto incremental field.
There's two ways to do this either with a sequence or with the serial data type and the serial data
type is just a shortcut for a sequence.
So it makes sense to use that.
And we also want this to be the primary key.
We want an email which is going to be candidates of varying up to 255 characters.
We have first name which is character varying up to 255 characters and we have a last name which is
carked varying up to 250 of our characters.
So that's it.
And remember that instead of these you can use text instead the text type if you prefer.
But I'm going to stick with this.
It's more sort of sequel rather than text it's more Pasko sequel stuff but it doesn't matter.
Either one is fine.
Once we've got this just press play Appia or press the function five key to run it.
And that's the table created.
So if we select start from users we should see the columns then but with no content in them unnaturally
.
OK.
Now we can close Jetman three and go back to PI John.
So in this video we're going to be looking at saving the user into the database.
The objective of the video is to be able to do this.
My underscore user don't save too D-B.
And when we run this the user should appear in AM Potter sequel with this data up here.
But naturally the IED is going to be not one but an auto incrementing number.
Because the idea is going to be auto incrementing in Pasqua sequel.
That means we don't have to worry about it in Python at all and therefore instead of giving it a number
which would be the ID I'm just going to give it none.
Which in Python that stands for just not a value.
We're not going to give it a value.
And then we're just going to let Pasqua sequels deal with it.
Let's go back into our user file and implement the method saved to TB because that's the one we want
to be running.
So Steve to D.B and this method should be able to just save the user to the database.
OK.
Here is where we are going to start using psycho Peasey too.
So the first thing to do is to import it.
So at the top of the file will say import psyco P.G. 2 and you won't see that.
If you have not installed it so please refer to the first few videos in the section for instructions
on how to do that.
And then we are going to be having to do the first step which is connect to the database and I think
this is kind of expected by now because we know that when we launched Patras sequel we also have to
connect to it and we have to put in our password you know all that stuff.
So the first step in saving to the database is to connect to it.
So let's create a variable called connection that is going to store an active connection to Pasko sequel
the way we're going to do that is by running psycho-BS G-2 don't connect.
And this method here allows us to open up a connection to postru sequel.
However it takes a few parameters the parameters it takes the user that you want to log in as this can
be your user or it can just be the postscripts user there I'm using the Parker as a user because that
is a super user which means we know it's going to have access to everything.
We don't have to concern ourselves potentially with other things the sake of this video is to teach
how to use psycho to and not to concern ourselves with you logging in with different users and things
like that in order to be able to log in with this the user that you were using.
If it's not the post-crash user needs to have a password.
So if you're a user it doesn't have a password and you don't want to use the as user.
You're going to have to create another user with a password.
So that's why I'm using the potty refugia because mine doesn't have a password and then password.
In my case it's one two three four.
It's not a very secure password.
And then the database which in my case is called learning.
And if you've imported the database from the files provided in an earlier section your database will
also be called learning but you can create another one and call it differently if you wish.
And we've looked at how to do that as well before.
And finally the most important parameter is where is a database running in which server it is running
and the server in which it is running is the local server your computer and therefore the host is going
to be equal to the local your current computer the local host.
And that's just your current computer and the host is just what is hosting containing the sequel server
.
OK.
So that's the connection.
Now Open.
Now we have to be able to execute things in the server.
Nearly all of these add library to connect to relational databases be it Potter sequel using psycho-BS
G-2 or something like My sequel using a bunch of other libraries.
They all work with a thing called cursors and the cursor is just a thing that lets you retrieve data
and read it row by row or it lets you execute arbitrary sequence statements in the form of inserting
data for example.
So we have to open up a cursor to this connection so let's do that.
I'm going to do with connection dot cursor as cursor and what this is doing is he's creating a cursor
using this connection and it's calling the variable that is containing this value is calling that variable
cursor.
And with the with command is doing is it's opening the cursor up and then we are going to be running
some code and then I'm going to put pass in just for that moment and then when it gets to the end of
the code that it's running it's going to close the cursor and that is a good thing to do.
Always close your cursor at the end.
After running all this stuff we're also going to have to come it's the connection and warlords are going
to have to close the connection and we're going to look at exactly what those things are.
In just a moment.
OK so the code that we want to run is cursor dot execute.
And here we can put in the sequence statement that we want to run.
So I'm going to remove this pass.
So what sequence statement Do we want to run if we want to save this user data to the users table.
And I'm sure you've got that what we want to do is to insert into users.
So let's type that in insert into users.
And here we put the columns that we want to put data into.
And remember we don't want to put data into the ID column because that is all too incremental and we
don't have to worry about that part we're going to deal with that for us.
So the columns that we want to put data into our email first name and last name and the values that
we want to put into it.
Ah.
And here is the magical moment percent s percent as percent x.
And now you're wondering what the help and yes to I'll mean that in a moment.
So that's the string that we want to execute.
But naturally the percent Essie's should be replaced by the email the first name the last name etc.
.
So after the end of the string after the end of the string we put in a coma and then in here inside
brackets we put in self-doubt email self the first name self the last name.
And then what the cursor is going to do is he's going to pop in those values in there.
It's going to do pretty much the same thing that the format a method does.
But we don't have to do it ourselves.
And there's a few reasons for that.
This is secure and we're going to look at what happens if you don't do it this way and very soon and
why it's dangerous.
We'll look at that later on.
This is cure.
And this is what we want to be running.
OK.
So now we are ready to press play and see what happens.
So let's press play and notice that nothing is printed out because we no longer have anything to print
here.
Let's go into psycho PGE sorry.
Potter sequel.
Reichlich your tables refresh them and access your user staple them and we can here view the data and
view the top 100 rows.
And as we can see we've got our data there and the idea is number one which is the first element of
a sequence which is going to be auto incremental.
And we've got our data there.
So good job in getting him.
You are now able to insert data into posho sequel from your Python apps.
Let's close this up and I'll give you a couple more things you can do which are going to simplify this
code a wee bit.
The first thing that we should realize is that we've got three things related to connecting.
We've got this thing then which opens up the connection.
We've got this thing here which commits the connection and this thing here which closes that connection
.
What happens if we remove the commit.
So we run this again and see what happens.
Same output.
Now let's go back in here.
View the data and it is not there.
We've got the same lead as before but we've inserted a new one and that one is not there.
OK let's put it back in and press play again.
What do you think is going to happen.
What do you think is going to appear in our ATP's.
Well maybe nothing is going up here in our database.
Take a moment to think about that and let's have a look.
I'm going to press this button here which refreshes the reader.
And do you notice anything strange.
I'm sure you do.
The strange thing is that we've skipped the two we've jumped from one to three.
And just for your convenience I want to run the app again and refresh the data again and you'll see
for an hour.
So it's not that it is only printing out or numbers or anything like that.
It's skipped the two.
And the reason why skip the two is this one and a theory behind it really but sequel letterboxes work
with transactions.
So what we are telling it to when we do this cursorial execute is presumed that this data two uses and
then the database says OK I'll do that later.
And we tell it no do it now.
That's what we're saying.
And then it's like OK I'll commit that to the disk.
So then if it saves it fine.
If we don't commit before we close like we did when we deleted that we deleted that and we closed without
committing then the data suddenly just shuts down.
And the fact that I said I'll save it later ends up being I will not save it because he didn't tell
me to.
And now you're wondering well why is that thing like why would you ever want to do that.
And it's quite simple.
It comes from the days of the days off.
That sounds old but it's not that really.
It comes from the days of a spinning hard drives.
Now computers nowadays tend to have solid state drives which are like a giant flash drive like a giant
pen drive but him back in the days and still.
So we had spinning drives that are magnetic.
And for those spinning drives to save some thing into a disk it take it took took a while a few milliseconds
.
So this commit method was used to only write to the disk when necessary.
That meant you could insert a bunch of things and then write them all at the same time which saves time
.
But now we're not really that concerned with it.
Especially if you're service have a solid state drive.
If you don't then maybe that is more of a concern and maybe what you should do is commit a smaller intervals
than after every statement.
But we're not really going to worry about that.
So for now we're going to commit after each insert so that we don't lose any data.
So this is why we need to commit.
And then when we close then the connection gets closed.
The memory of the database gets erased.
So if there's anything pending commit that gets lost.
So that's why the sequence generally to the new number.
The data we used was all the good with that.
And then we just told it to delete the data.
So the sequence did generate number two but then we didn't save it.
So that's why it's not here.
But then when we told it to generate a new number then the next number was three.
So that's why this one is there.
OK.
So that is that.
But when we want to skip on doing this stuff we want to not have to specify I want to commit I want
to close what we can do is just as we're doing with this Carcer do with the connection.
So instead of psychobilly two connection equal psycho-BS to the conect what I'm going to do is we've
psychobilly to the connect connection and then I'm going to delete the commit and close.
Now I'm going to invent all of that.
To put it inside this with statement what this is doing is open up a connection to this Patreus database
.
Call it connection but now the creators of Cyclopedia to have specified that at the end of the with
statement it will automatically commit and close for you.
If we run this again now.
Now we have the number five.
So this is just a shorter way of doing the same thing and it saves you code.
It makes it more readable and it means that you do not forget to commit or close the connection.
It does it for you.
And that's nice.
So we have a long video but I wanted to make sure that you understand where each of the pieces comes
from and that you understand that although you can do with Connect and connection that are also other
ways of doing it and in the background.
This is what this with statement is doing is creating a connection variable committing at the end and
closing.
And that's what's happening here.
So with that said I'll see you in the very next video where we're going to be looking at more into Pasquier
unpacked than I see there.